# RubyConfAU Melbourne 2023

https://www.rubyconf.org.au/2023/schedule

---

Some interesting and inspiring talks on how we can make the world a better
place both through immediate action and maybe through helping tech choose the
right direction towards a more utopian future
Pat Allan - Upgrading the ruby community
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ml9wma3WL8c

“The World Set Free” - Coraline Ada Ehmke
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SG759w1qfpI

---

There were some great talks on Neurodiversity/ADHD/Autism and the like and how
we can all get the best out of our developer community if we are more
accomodating

“But, you don’t look Autistic” - Rhiana Heppenstall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i85MQxE9TR0

“REACT to Imposter Syndrome” - Prakriti Mateti
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ee0QCyRuwCU

“Neurodiversity: A silent disability or a super power?!” - Shaila Man
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CsoB-kP3-J0

---

some heavy hitting talks on

“How Puma Works” - Nate Berkopec (RubyConf AU 2023)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SquGNt4FhY0

“Asynchronous Rails” - Samuel Williams

“Implementing Object Shapes for CRuby” - Jemma Issroff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0lg9Y8gj3FI

---

Some nice take aways with
“Security Doesn’t Have To Be a Nightmare” - Wiktoria Dalach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-VuM4FMIgT4

“Encrypted Search Party” - Fiona McCawley
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lp0k94sUwI8

“Hanami 2: New Framework, New You” - Tim Riley
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-B9AbFsQOKo

“Testing in Production: there is a better way” - Igor Kapkov
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OWICpZ_8KJk

How to Make Your Website Not Ugly: Basic UX for Programmers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zkrRd5itj8w

---

Here was a great talk on salary negotiation - “A People Pleasers Guide to
Salary Negotiation” - Colleen Lavin (RubyConf AU 2023)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4EoMYQ6fmss

---

And a highlight was on using RailsEngines and Packwerk to do basically what I
was already driving in a project at work. Modularising our Monlith using
Packwerk to create a separate bounded context application for compliance
reporting

All you need is Rails (Engines): Compartmentalising your Monolith
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=StDoHXO8H6E

---

shift left on security using the C.I.A. (Confidentiality, Integrity and
Availability) to make sure you shift that thinking LEFT so that you look at how
these 3 things could be broken - before you start building your feature -
something we should do and think about

The CipherStash style encryption of data that is searchable is a great video to
watch with code to try out https://github.com/fimac/toy_ore_rb on how ORE
(Order Revealing Encryption) works

Hanami is a great example of how to use the hexagonal architecture to improve
your apps

Testing in production is Igor Kapkov’s take on how to make the most of Github
Scientist to refactor code

Finally some great advice on how to keep websites functional from a design
persepective

certainly some great internals on how and why Ruby 3.2 is faster with object
allocation as well as a show down between using Puma vs some of the benefits
and great example code of doing asynchronous coding in Ruby with Fibres and the
advantages of Falcon


in all RubyConfAU was an amazing experience and one we should probably try in
future as an “organised” developer offsite where the topics are already
organised for us and help get the team together and reboot all of us. The talks
I would recommend watching are

All you need is Rails (Engines): Compartmentalising your Monolith
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=StDoHXO8H6E

“Encrypted Search Party” - Fiona McCawley
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lp0k94sUwI8

“Hanami 2: New Framework, New You” - Tim Riley
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-B9AbFsQOKo

and Samuel Williams on Falcon and fibre’s if/when the video is found


finally if you want to see the RubyConfAU talk Asynchronous Rails talk by
Samuel Williams it is now up https://youtu.be/9tOMD491mFY - highly recommended

https://youtu.be/9tOMD491mFY